.Dd April 7, 2017
.Dt TALER\-EXCHANGE\-KEYUP 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm taler\-exchange\-keyup
.Nd setup Taler exchange denomination and signing keys
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl d Ar DIRNAME | Fl -exchange-dir= Ns Ar DIRNAME
.Op Fl h | -help
.Op Fl m Ar FILE | Fl -master-key= Ns Ar FILE
.Op Fl o Ar FILE | Fl -output= Ns Ar FILE
.Op Fl r Ar DKH | Fl -revoke= Ns Ar DKH
.Op Fl t Ar TIMESTAMP | Fl -time= Ns Ar TIMESTAMP
.Op Fl v | -version
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a command line tool to setup Taler denomination and signing keys.
This tool requires access to the exchange's long-term offline signing
key and should be run in a secure (offline) environment under strict
controls.
The resulting keys can then be copied to the main online directory
where the Taler HTTP server operates.
.Pp
Its options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl d Ar DIRNAME | Fl -exchange-dir= Ns Ar DIRNAME
Use the configuration and other resources for the exchange to
operate from
.Ar DIRNAME .
.It Fl h | -help
Print short help on options.
.It Fl m Ar FILE | Fl -master-key= Ns Ar FILE
Location of the private EdDSA offline master key of the exchange.
.It Fl o Ar FILE | Fl -output= Ns Ar FILE
Where to write a denomination key signing request file to be given
to the auditor.
.It Fl r Ar DKH | Fl -revoke= Ns Ar DKH
Revoke the denomination key where the denomination public key's hash is DKH.
.It Fl t Ar TIMESTAMP | Fl -time= Ns Ar TIMESTAMP
Operate as if the current time was
.Ar TIMESTAMP .
.It Fl v | -version
Print version information.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr taler-exchange-httpd 1 ,
.Xr taler-exchange-keyup 1 ,
.Xr taler-exchange-keycheck 1 ,
.Xr taler.conf 5 .
.Sh BUGS
Report bugs by using
.Lk https://gnunet.org/bugs/
or by sending electronic mail to
.Aq Mt taler@gnu.org .
